OCTOBER 5TH
[GIRL] Hey, hey, let's go
eat pancakes next time.
[girls giggling]
They said it looked
really tasty.
-[laughter]
-I totally believe it.
[NODOKA] Was that
really Uzuki?
She was gauging my feelings
as she talked.
That's not like her at all.
-Hey, Fukuyama.
-Hmm?
What are your thoughts
about Hirokawa today?
I think she's pretty cute.
[SAKUTA] Anything else?
[FUKUYAMA]
Uh, she's really cute.
Guess you're right.
[♪ opening theme song playing]
RASCAL DOES NOT DREAM
OF SANTA CLAUS
WHAT FLAVOR IS THE ATMOSPHERE?
-[MIORI] Oh, Azusagawa!
-Mmm?
Yoo-hoo!
[MAI] We had second period
English together.
Yeah. And when Mai sat
next to me
I thought my heart
was gonna burst out of my chest.
You're overreacting, Miori.
You two seem
to be getting along quite well.
You're not feeling jealous
Mai's not exactly the best
at making friends
so it's unexpected.
Who isn't?
After we got paired up
during English
we started chatting
And when she mentioned
not having a smartphone
I knew she was the girl you
told me about the other night.
Mmm.
[chuckles]
Yum!
So, the two of you
really are going out, huh?
I'm often told we're not
in the same league.
I didn't mean that.
But you distance yourself
so naturally.
You guys make a great pair.
Thank you, Miori.
[gasps]
♪
I can't take it.
I just fell in love.
Well, Mai belongs to me
Can't I just borrow her?
That's enough, you two.
I'm not an object, you know?
Oh! Hey, at least save me half.
What am I watching right now?
I feel like I need
to leave or something.
-You can stay.
-Yes, please do leave. Uh...
[sighs]
Hmm?
[indistinct chatter]
Back in high school
Just put on a uniform.
They're not
consulting each other
and deciding together, right?
[MIORI] Would anyone
do something so cumbersome?
[SAKUTA] Likely not.
I'm pretty distressed
about clothes every day, too.
I don't want people to think
that I'm not cool
but I also don't want people
to laugh at me
for being a tryhard.
I mean, I even did a search
for "autumn college outfit"
to pick this out today.
It's not surprising that people
end up dressing the same.
In high school
found cute ways to tie neckties
and even swapped our socks.
Back then
trying to stand out.
Hey, Mai.
Where do you buy your clothes?
Hmm... Well, recently
I've been buying the outfits
I wear during shoots
that I like from the stylist
on set that day.
I can't exactly do that, though.
But for you to ask
about something so specific
did something happen?
[SAKUTA] What sort of something?
Something is something
I was just wondering, is all.
[MAI] You and Miori
kind of share a similar vibe.
I'm sure Mito would hate it
if you told her that.
You've got cram school
today, right?
Why don't you ask Futaba
what she thinks
about that thing from earlier?
-Hmm?
-I heard from Nodoka.
That conversation
you were having
was about Hirokawa, right?
[sighs]
♪
Please enjoy your meal.
Okay. Thanks.
I imagine you're still going
through puberty, Azusagawa?
I'm surprisingly very pure.
Apparently, rascals
are surprisingly sensitive.
Hold on. You do mean
actual rascals, don't you?
Azusagawa, you appeared
to be rather eager
to tie this incident
to puberty syndrome.
But the only thing
that's happened
is an idol who couldn't
read the room
suddenly gained
the ability to do so.
She never seemed troubled
by her own air-headedness
before, did she?
If not, I really don't see
why she would
develop puberty syndrome
out of the blue.
Yeah, I get your point, but...
I'm thinking it would be okay
if she was simply
reading the room.
But wouldn't it be creepy
if she suddenly
started matching her clothes
to everyone else too?
Interesting.
Isn't that the exact same
topic you were discussing
with your cute new
female friend earlier today?
Easy now. She's only
a potential friend.
If people are always interacting
with the same information
that information
will then be spread around
even without direct contact
and everybody who consumes it
will end up becoming similar.
In some ways
isn't that kind of similar
to quantum entanglement?
Well, with a convenient
interpretation of the results
I believe you could say
they have similarities.
For instance, let's say
there is a community
experiencing
quantum entanglement.
There is.
Now, let's say
one of their friends
who is free
of quantum entanglement
comes and joins them.
Well, she's joined them.
The girl that came after
would be roped
into the state
of quantum entanglement.
Information will be shared
and she will merge
into the community.
I don't get how
college students can do that
without discussing beforehand.
I'm starting to think they have
some unspoken special power.
But, if that is the case
the ones who have developed
puberty syndrome
may not be Uzuki Hirokawa
but perhaps
all the other college students
who are capable
of reading the room.
All of the college students?
As if all college students
are sharing information
subconsciously.
And by doing so
a standardized sense of value
amongst their peers.
That's awfully large-scale.
College doesn't have uniforms
or set classes like high school
which caused people
to become uncertain
and subconsciously create
a consensus that describes
how a college student
should dress and function.
[SAKUTA] I see.
If that's indeed the true nature
of this puberty syndrome
it wouldn't be a surprise
that Uzuki Hirokawa would
get roped into it by the others.
Zukki is Zukki after all.
She is an idol
and plastered all over TV
and fashion magazines.
For other ordinary
college students
that are still uncertain
of their identity
she shines so bright
they'd want to avert
their eyes from her.
And that would explain
why they swallowed her up
pulling her into the same
ordinary group as themselves.
Anyway, Azusagawa
isn't stuff like this
more in your area of expertise?
Analyzing stuff like that
is what statistical science
is all about, right?
Kaede?
You guys still not done?
Oh, hey there, big brother.
We're heading home.
You've gotta take
a look at this.
MILLION VIEWS 10 HOURS AGO
[♪ music plays on phone]
Right. Uzuki is totally
going viral.
They just uploaded it today.
But look, the video's
already got a million views.
OCTOBER 6TH
UZUKI HIROKAWA
Big brother, stop staring.
Would you rather I look
at the real thing?
Actually, that one is better.
No. I forbid you
from staring so much.
You seem to be doing
really well lately.
Yeah, thanks to everyone.
Kaede was all
worked up yesterday
and showed me the new video.
Apparently
It looks like it.
My manager
even contacted me this morning
and told me
I needed to be careful
on my way to the campus.
[GIRL 1] Hey, it's that girl!
Yeah, the one
from the earphone commercial.
That's right.
What was her name again?
Oh, I think
it was something-Zuki.
She's a cutie.
And a good singer, too.
[GIRL 2] Wasn't she
on a quiz show?
[GIRL 3] Yes, she was!
You're quite the influencer.
At this rate, you'll be headed
straight to Koshien.
That's baseball, big brother.
Oh, that's right. It's Ryogoku.
Closer. But no
We've all been striving
to make it to Budokan.
I'm sure you knew that, though.
And that Budokan
is a bit closer now?
Hmm. I guess we'll see.
By the way, why is it Budokan?
I didn't really care
where it was
as long as we were aiming
for it together.
I talked with you about this
before, didn't I?
About how it was really
difficult for me
to make any new friends
after I started middle school.
You did.
Every single member
of Sweet Bullet
has their own special place
in my heart.
We're way more
than just friends.
And that's why
I want to perform at Budokan
with everyone together.
For us.
[WOMAN] Right now
for children
refusing to go to school.
But we still lack
the adequate manpower.
Would you be interested
in being a student volunteer?
The organization
was founded recently
and we're looking for people
who can actively help
with our mission.
Right now
for children refusing
to go to school.
Volunteering, huh? How kind.
-Virtuous much?
-[laughter]
♪
Hey, big brother.
You know
everyone was laughing
at me too.
When they were saying
I was an idol
that couldn't break out
that I wasn't able
to read the room
they were all secretly
laughing at me.
[♪ music plays on speakers]
OCTOBER 17TH
-Zukki, what are you doing?
-[music stops]
What's wrong?
You don't have this down at all.
You need to focus more.
I'm sorry.
Mr. Sakuta
I've got an important
question for you.
Yes, Yamada. What is it?
Well, sir, are you close friends
with Uzuki Hirokawa?
[sighs] Chit-chat that has
nothing to do with the lesson
will trouble others.
So let's not do that, okay?
Aww!
[both groan]
Huh?
[WOMAN]
In the constellation Orion
-the super--
-[dings]
Yes, Zukki.
Betelgeuse.
-[dings]
-[giggles]
Zukki, what's gotten into you?
That's three correct answers
in a row.
I guess I'm on a roll lately.
Oh, no. That's pretty terrible
for this show, you know.
This Uzuki Hirokawa
is truly an interesting girl.
Yeah, she sure is.
[MAN] ...yourself an artist now?
Well, I am in my prime
after all.
I'm getting a little worried
about today's ratings.
[laughter]
-Sakuta!
-Hmm?
Heading home from work, Koga?
You are too, right?
I sure am.
Sakuta, did something
happen to you?
Something like what?
Something is something.
-Is that phrase popular lately?
-Hmm.
[♪ street performer singing]
Hey, Koga
what are your thoughts
on that guy?
My thoughts?
Uh, what do you want me to say?
I'm just curious what you think.
Well, I think he's amazing.
He has something he wants to do
and has the initiative
to pull it off.
I find that amazing
Although
I'd probably say I've never
heard that song before
and we'd laugh a little.
But someday, once that person
becomes rich and famous
I think I'd brag, like
"I listened to him when he was
a simple street performer."
Is that a good answer?
That's absolutely perfect.
Oh, but if we're talking about
celebrities who are close to us
no one comes close
to Sakurajima.
Well, of course not.
She is my perfect Mai.
Ugh, whatever.
Hey, Tomoe!
[exclaims] Oh, Himeji.
I just finished cram school.
Oh, this is a first-year.
Sara Himeji.
Hello.
-And this would be--
-Mr. Azusagawa, aren't you?
Oh, that's right.
You also go to the cram school
where he teaches, don't you?
But I'm not your instructor
Not yet, but I am currently
looking for a new math teacher.
Well, if you want
to properly understand it
I'd recommend Miss Futaba.
But if all you want
is good scores on your tests
I'm fine too.
Mr. Azusagawa
I wouldn't say interesting.
More like he's just weird.
Koga, can you not get
in the way of my sales pitch?
How on earth
was that a sales pitch?
I'm so sorry. I didn't mean
to get between you two.
Huh?
Uh, no. No, no, wait!
It's not what you think!
It's fine. Don't sweat it, Koga.
Hmm! Make sure you clear up
that misunderstanding
all right, Mr. Azusagawa?
OCTOBER 18TH
Huh?
[NODOKA] Sakuta, I have a favor
to ask of you.
[SAKUTA] If this is about Mai
We'll create a happy
family together.
You know that's
not what I'm asking for!
So what then? Is it Zukki?
Yeah.
We... had a concert
rehearsal yesterday.
You have gigs two days in a row
on Saturday and Sunday, right?
I heard about that from Kaede.
We'll be at Odaiba on Saturday
and then Hakkeijima on Sunday.
By the way, I'll be on a date
with Mai on Saturday.
Ugh, I didn't even ask you!
Kaiedey said she's going
to Hakkeijima on Sunday.
I would have given her
a guest ticket if she'd told me.
She's just being considerate
'cause she's a big fan of Zukki.
You know
[SAKUTA] So?
The dance instructor
was scolding Uzuki
which is unusual.
I asked her
if she was doing all right
but she just shrugged me off
with a fake smile.
-Well, that doesn't sound good.
-It's not.
Uzuki used to tell me
about everything. [sighs softly]
But these days
And now there are rumors
spreading all over social media
that Uzuki is graduating
from Sweet Bullet too.
Oh.
Okay. So what's the favor?
If Uzuki is in trouble
I don't want you
to expect too much.
It's probably out of my control
Yeah. Please do.
[train engine slowing]
Mmm?
[♪ suspenseful music playing]
Huh?
[NODOKA] Sakuta?
-Uh...
-[train engine revving]
♪
Mmm.
[grunts]
[SAKUTA]
Ditching class today, Zukki?
[gasps] Big brother.
Today... How should I put it?
I wanted to do
a little self-discovery.
Can you find it in Misakiguchi?
Uh, I don't know.
What's even here, anyway?
I think the town's specialty
is tuna.
[♪ music playing over speakers]
Have you found the self
that you were looking for?
Well, it's very tasty
but I don't think I found myself
in the tuna bowl.
What should we do now?
Let's go for a ride!
When you think self-discovery
I don't think
searching for oneself
is what most people do
on rental cycles, but sure.
[♪ Uzuki Hirokawa's
"Social World"]
[singing in Japanese]
I wonder what
all these leaves are.
Oh, those are daikon.
Miura daikon.
You're so smart, big brother.
I only know because I came here
for a great school field trip.
By the way, Zukki
where are we passing through
right now?
I don't know.
Well, where are we heading to?
The sea.
What about a map?
The info desk person said
no distractions
while driving the bicycles.
Oh, look, it's the ocean!
♪
How Nodoka!
Wait, what about Toyohama?
Not her. I mean it's tranquil.
-By the way, Zukki...
-Hmm?
Why did you choose statistical
science as your major?
Well, big brother, why did you
choose statistical science?
Because I thought it would be
the least competitive major.
Then the same for me.
What's with that?
If you're not gonna tell me
your true reason
then I am not gonna
tell you mine.
That wasn't exactly a lie.
But it wasn't exactly
the truth either, was it?
[sighs]
[Uzuki grunts]
[exhales sharply]
Did Nodoka talk to you
about something?
Hmm?
[chuckles softly]
Big brother
how old do you think someone
can keep being an idol?
Aren't you gonna be
an idol for life?
I used to say stuff like that
in the past.
It's different now?
One of my friends from my class
asked me yesterday
"Just how long are you going
to keep being an idol?"
And that
made you start wondering?
Uh-uh.
No, I thought of something else.
What's that?
That I didn't want her taking
her frustration out on me
just because she had
a big fight with her boyfriend.
Isn't that a little harsh?
People don't usually
put it into words
but I'm pretty sure
everyone thinks that way.
[exhales] Yeah, but...
everyone wants to be something.
What is something?
Something about yourself
you can be proud of
and say, "This is me."
For you, that something
would be like
when you're performing
as a singer or an idol.
But for now
she hasn't been able to find
that something for herself
so you shine too brightly
for her eyes.
Yeah, but still...
there is kind of a point
to what my friend was saying.
That no one can be
an idol for life.
So, maybe Budokan
is out of reach.
Zukki
lend me your smartphone.
How come?
Looks like Budokan's
closer than you think.
Oh...
[birds chirping]
It was farther than I thought.
Well, we were pretty far
from the train station.
So, now that you're here
what do you think of Budokan?
Hey, big brother
how many idol groups
can get on stage here each year?
No.
Five groups at most.
We've been on TV
and more people do stop us
on the streets now.
But so far, we've only been able
to fill venues up
to about 2
How many people do you need
to fill this place up?
Okay, but you knew that
from the beginning, didn't you?
Mmm.
I knew that as soon as I set
this place as our goal.
At least I thought.
But now I'm not so sure.
I wonder if this was really
the place I wanted to go to.
I didn't worry about
stuff like this in the past.
Then...
was it better for you when
you couldn't read the room?
Mm-mm.
I'm glad I can read
the room now.
You'll know when your friends
make back-handed compliments.
True. Kind of like
what you just did.
I can understand
stuff like that now.
And I can hear everybody's
voices inside my head.
They're saying
all sorts of things.
I listen to all of it
and I lost sight of what
I truly am in the process.
I wonder if I'm experiencing
puberty syndrome right now.
Probably.
Then, if I get better
Yeah, probably.
That'd be rough
after going through all this.
Big brother, which version
of myself do you prefer?
I think both of them are great.
So you don't have a preference?
Yeah. That's right.
Both are great.
I think talking to you helped
to clear the fog in my head.
Thanks so much for hanging out
with me all day, big brother.
[chuckles softly]
[phone vibrates]
Oh. Uzuki.
Nodoka? Big brother says
he has a favor to ask.
[gasps] Hold on.
What are you saying?
[SAKUTA] Toyohama?
Is it too late to still get
tickets for the Saturday gig?
Of course not.
But I thought
you were going on a date
with big sister on Saturday.
Did something happen to Uzuki?
Is she in trouble?
I don't know
♪
There are no rabbits
on the moon, huh?
There's no food
or air up there either
so that's probably
a good thing.
You're not a romantic, are you?
[♪ closing theme song playing]
RASCAL DOES NOT DREAM
OF A LOST SINGER
♪
[NODOKA] Oh, Sakuta
NEXT EPISODE
#3 IDOL SONG